---
layout: archive
title: "1984"
permalink: /reads/1984/
author_profile: true
---

1984 is a dystopian novel by George Orwell published in 1949. It is widely considered one of the most influential novels of the 20th century, serving as a cautionary tale about the dangers of totalitarianism and the erosion of individual liberties.

Key themes and elements of the novel include:

- Totalitarianism: The novel depicts a society ruled by a totalitarian goernment known as Big Brother. The government exercises complete control over its citizens, monitoring their thoughts, actions, and speech.
- Surveillance: The government uses advanced technology to constantly monitor its citizens, including telescreens that watch and listen to them.
- Thought control: The government seeks to control the thoughts and beliefs of its citizens through propaganda, censorship, and psychological manipulation.
- The Ministry of Truth: This government department is responsible for rewriting history to conform to the party's ideology.
- The Party: The ruling political party, which is led by Big Brother.
- The Outer Party: The middle class of society, who are loyal to the Party but have limited freedoms.
- The Proles: The working class, who are mostly ignored by the Party and live relatively free lives.
- Winston Smith: The protagonist of the novel, a low-ranking member of the Outer Party who begins to question the Party's control.
- Julia: A young woman who becomes Winston's lover and shares his rebellious spirit.
- 1984 is a powerful and disturbing novel that continues to resonate with readers today. Its themes of surveillance, thought control, and the erosion of individual liberties are particularly relevant in the age of technology and mass surveillance.

Take a look at this part of the book:


<ul><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/posts/2021/01/Hedonistic-Utopia/">Hedonistic Utopia</a></ul>
